Assignment name: The Game of Craps

Name: Eva Howard
UWNetID: eva7960

Assignment Overview:
For this assignment you are to create the game of Craps. This project needs to be designed in
terms of model, view, controller. All game logic and data should be contained in the model
package while all the GUI components and listeners should be kept in the view package. While
action listeners for buttons is considered controller code, because of how java swing works
it is fine to have listeners and buttons together in the view package. The controller package
should contain main, the entry point for your game, and be used to process data and other
information between the model and the view. Your game should have a menu bar with game and
help menu. The game menu should have the following sub menus: start, reset, and exit, while
the help menu should have the following sub menus: rules and about. There needs to be at
least two buttons, one to roll the dice and another to play again. These buttons should be
enabled and disabled appropriately. There should be JLabels to display each die, the sum,
the user wins, the house wins, and the point. Additionally, once the game works, implement
a betting system where the user can input their bank at the start of each game and input
their bet for every round. These numbers also need to be tested for appropriate values
and should be disabled and enabled as needed.

Technical Impression:
I experienced some ups and downs while making this game but in all I had a lot of fun
creating it. To start, I really had no idea how any GUI worked. In our previous assignments
we coded action listeners, but we didn't actually have any practice with putting GUI components
on a frame, so I had to research how to do all of that, I felt like I was truly starting from scratch.
There's a super helpful video I found that helped me implement all the basic GUI components and explained
the basic behaviors for them, I have the video listed below. I started with creating the model and just
coding how the game would work, but I quickly realized I sort of needed to plan out how the three packages
were going to work together so that I could code efficiently and have an idea of where to start with things.
I actually looked up a video explaining MVC which I found really helpful and I also listed below. Learning
how the structure of MVC works I roughly drafted what code each package would have and do. Before Tom explained
that the buttons and components could be together in the view I was having a lot of difficulty. Because action
listeners are what drive the game I was trying to construct all the buttons in the controller and passing them
into the view but that was really difficult and I didn't know what I was doing. However, once Tom cleared that
up things went a lot smoother, and I was able to start making progress. I actually started with the GUI layout
because I figured once I had a visual I could start wiring in the buttons and stuff and start making methods
as necessary. GUI is pretty tedious and takes a lot of time. I had difficulty adding buttons to a panel and adding
the panel to the frame, for some reason my buttons wouldn't show up, or I wasn't able to move them. I ended up
just putting the components on the frame instead but some of my peers said that to make it work they had to adjust
the panel to just fit the component, and then they were able to place it on their frame. For the future I would probably
use panels because they help to organize everything. The only thing I want to bring up is that for my model test, I
wasn't sure how to test my roll dice method because it returns a random integer, so I don't know what to put for
the expected value that will match the actual value for the assertEquals. I programmed it to just keep rolling
until it got the number I expected.

Unresolved problems in my submission:
N/A

Citations and Collaborations:
MVC explained - https://youtu.be/DUg2SWWK18I
GUI course - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kmgo00avvEw
Java audio input - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJO_cq5XeSA

The GUI course video is 5 hour video with time stamps of basic components
such as buttons, labels, text fields, frames, panels, etc. super super helpful
I cannot recommend it more for beginners at GUI.

Questions:
N/A

Extra Credit:
I have two dice icons that change when you roll the dice, I also added audio for
when you roll the dice and also for when you lose or win. I also implemented
betting buttons which I'm not sure counts as extra credit but it would be really cool
if it did.
